# LIGO Rucio Evaluation Call

Objective: touch base on activities
 * What have we done?
 * What are we doing?
 * Identify activities to coordinate
 * Advertise docs / agree on admin

James will take notes and flesh this out later
 
## On-going Activities
### James/Brian:
 * Brian: Test LIGO Rucio instance set up @ Northwestern
 * James: generally been experimenting with command line tools for setting up
   RSEs, transferring files "by hand"
 * Software:
 &nbsp; * [README](https://github.com/astroclark/ligo-rucio/blob/master/README.md)
 &nbsp;   with some (incomplete) notes on setting up RSEs, basic commandline tools.
 &nbsp; * Keeping more complete notes in [examples doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5KYTq--jpPxsgC4Rs5X7lh3oiFYkitb1XsupT80yzY/edit) 
 &nbsp; * `gw_data_find`-based script for dataset identification/creation: [insert_lvc_dataset.py](https://github.com/astroclark/ligo-rucio/blob/master/insert_lvc_dataset.py) (should probably overhaul this to eliminate the `pycbc` dependency...)
 &nbsp * Convert LIGO LFNs to PFNs: [ligo_lfn2pfn.py](https://github.com/astroclark/ligo-rucio/blob/master/lib/ligo_lfn2pfn.py)
* Next Steps & Actions
 * Documentation & specifications: James - understand LDR monitoring to
   determine comparison benchmarks, LDR summary document for comparison
 * Perform dataset replication via the python API

### Dan
 * LIGO rucio instance in LIGO Datagrid environment

## Documentation/Resources (& Questions)
 * rucio [slack channel](rucio.slack.com): worth setting up dedicated channel? 
 * ligo-rucio [github](https://github.com/astroclark/ligo-rucio) repository:
   move to git.ligo.org (make publicly visible)? James' personal github not
   really appropriate
 * LIGO-rucio directory in [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1GNkNJwJbSXrTRUJzmemmaOJTBMCuzVm5?usp=sharing) -- should be editable by any ligo.org account
  * LDR summary doc [DRAFT](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GennSry8jTc3afz7RhYe8XkHrLe--XdejDdP3hJsvRU/edit?usp=sharing)
  * LIGO-rucio "manual" [DRAFT](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1puk4PPIz9OJAJ4ClgLY_FDW7HDeXkKVIUGybBnZv--4/edit)
  * [Examples/exercises](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5KYTq--jpPxsgC4Rs5X7lh3oiFYkitb1XsupT80yzY/edit)

## AOB 
 * Regular meetings? Maybe just a weekly email round-up?

-------------

Timezone confusion means attendance limited to James, Brian & Peter - discussion
focuses on technical points to move forward with Rucio demonstration

## Discussion notes

### Rucio demo technical discussion

Next: set up a rule to perform a transfer 


#### Adding RSEs

First, create a Caltech RSE - Following examples from from Brian's notes, should be easy to translate to LIGO.

 1. create RSE (aliasing is irrelevant here):
```
alias fnal-rucio-admin='rucio-admin -H https://ruciodev01.fnal.gov:444 --auth-host https:/ ruciodev01.fnal.gov:444'
alias fnal-rucio='rucio -H https://ruciodev01.fnal.gov:444 --auth-host https://ruciodev01.fnal.gov:444'
fnal-rucio-admin -a root rse add T2_US_Nebraska_REAL
```
 1. add protocol - *start* tells rucio how to go from LFN to PFN (this is the "prefix" part).  Don't use that json (want writeable). 
```
fnal-rucio-admin -a root rse add-protocol --hostname red-gridftp.unl.edu --scheme gsiftp --prefix /user/uscms01/pnfs/unl.edu/data4/ T2_US_Nebraska_REAL --domain-json '{"wan": {"read": 1, "write": 0, "delete": 0, "third_party_copy": 1}}'
```
 1. THe "key" "decodes" the LFN -- think we have a LIGO lfn2pfn algorithm in rucio now
```
fnal-rucio-admin -a root rse set-attribute --rse T2_US_Nebraska_REAL --key lfn2pfn_algorithm --value identity
```
 1. Enumerate linkages between RSEs (can just use distance=1; the point is to tell (e.g.,) the Caltech RSE that the (e.g.) GATech RSE exists etc. `add-distance` tells the end point how to communicate with other end points (if distance is not set and you create a rule, the rule will just get stuck)
```
fnal-rucio-admin -a root rse add-distance --distance 1 --ranking 1 T2_US_Nebraska_REAL T2_US_Nebraska
fnal-rucio-admin -a root rse add-distance --distance 2 --ranking 2  T2_US_Nebraska_REAL T2_US_Caltech
```

#### Adding rules

Specify:
 * can specify lifetime
 * specify DID - the thing to be replicated - individual files/datasets/containers
  * rules will keep datasets/containers updated!
 * file count: how many replicas - 3 sites, no filter = 3 replicas
 * expression

 * Expressions: multiple copies, tells rucio where objects are eligible to be replicated.  Essentially a filter for a list of sites.
 * Can use rules to set up collections of sites for replication, but replication strategy might be better set up per-site, particularly smaller sites


#### Very short side discussion on Dirac

 * No specifically bad words heard about it
 * Dirac modestly popular in europe
 * Flexible and can perform many duties but focuses a bit more / strength is in on data management in workflows/jobs where rucio focuses a bit more on site-level replication like LDR.

#### AOB
 * Brian & James (maybe Peter) agree to a weekly call at the same time (Friday 1200 EST)

### Actions
 * James to set up Caltech, GATech RSEs, carry out rules-based dataset replication
 * Reconvene next week



