# LIGO Rucio Evaluation Call: 2018-04-27

 * Last call notes: [2018-04-13](https://github.com/astroclark/ligo-rucio/blob/master/docs/meetings/call-2018-04-13.md)
 * [2018-04-25 DASWG update](https://dcc.ligo.org/LIGO-G1800854)

## Rucio Questions / issues
 * Get a certificate for  rucio-ligo.grid.uchicago.edu (@bbockelm)
 * Set up CIT rucio server
 * Rolling Cascina transfer?

## LDR questions
 * Any way to retrieve xfer operations history?
 * Full list of acronyms for LDR site names?


## Rough timelines
 * 1-2 weeks: authenticate test end-points, CIT rucio server
 * 2-4 weeks: proof-of-concept replication / rucio-rules implementation
 * ~4 weeks: larger scale testing & characterization
 * ~6 weeks: document & report findings

 
## Standing Documentation Notes
 * rucio [slack channel](rucio.slack.com)
 * ligo-rucio [github](https://github.com/astroclark/ligo-rucio) repository (to be moved to git.ligo.org)
 * LIGO-rucio directory in [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1GNkNJwJbSXrTRUJzmemmaOJTBMCuzVm5?usp=sharing) -- should be editable by any ligo.org account
  * LDR summary doc [DRAFT](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GennSry8jTc3afz7RhYe8XkHrLe--XdejDdP3hJsvRU/edit?usp=sharing)
  * LIGO-rucio "manual" [DRAFT](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1puk4PPIz9OJAJ4ClgLY_FDW7HDeXkKVIUGybBnZv--4/edit)
  * [Examples/exercises](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o5KYTq--jpPxsgC4Rs5X7lh3oiFYkitb1XsupT80yzY/edit)


## Notes from this call
 * 1 month buffer:  contingent on cascina setting up server
 * Cascina have an LDR server (this is the GridFTP & MySQL server) which needed
   to be rebuilt, messed up the kernel.  This is a VM, so they're just setting
   up a similar.
 * New, clean Rucio-dedicated server so as not to interfere with the existing
   LDR operations
 * Also have a VM setting up and being configured at LHO
 * Action: understand XrootD, S3, ..., 
 * Question: how does rucio actually talk to gridFTP, XrootD etc
 * How will the rolling buffer work?  Users can subscribe to datasets.  Define
   datasets, make rucio available, allow users to subscribe to datasets.
 * Rolling buffer: just 1 month of rolling raw data (because we don't currently archive that at CIT).
   In rucio terms, CIT will subscribe to that datasets.
 * Defining datasets will be up to us, then users (sites) can subscribe to them.
 * Action for james:  figure out how to define a dataset before it exists!
   Need to periodically refresh the diskcache to look for new files.
 * James using rucio client installed from src in /home
 * Dan had trouble installing from pip, argparse failing to install in virtualenv
 * James action: reinstall rucio client to double check dependencies satisfied
   in LSC software stack
 
 * which files were transferred in a pset will be in the GridFTP logs.
 * Dan to point James at CIT and LHO GridFTP logs
 * LDR site names will be buried in the LDR documentation
   New sites: IUCCA (india), CNAF (italy), ICTS (india), NCSA (test server)
 * Indian & Virgo sites *should* have data; transfers are defined.  
 * Some monitoring tools require on fixed files being updated...

Query for e.g., IUCCA
physloc-d=25





